Even with our limited climate data,
we can drill in a little bit more
to help confirm further
what we are already seeing.
If you remember, the climate metrics
of snow, rain, temperature, and
precipitation, were consolidated
in just a few variables
when we did the principal
components analysis.
For example, for snow,
we ended up using just two variables
that included over 97%
of the total variants.
So let's take a look at some of
the individual metrics of snow
to see if that will further
validate our clustering solution.
In other words,
what do the individual months look like?
Let's open up a new sheet in tab below.
We build this the same way as the
growing season length chart that we just
did, but we can compare a few
months on the same chart.
Let's pick November, January, and April.
The idea here is to see if there might
be some sort of differentiation.
And so the reason I'm picking these
three months is to see if there's
a distinction between
the segments with early snow,
in November, late snow,
which could be in April, and
normal snow,
which would be represented by January.
If you recall, clusters 4, 5, and 10,
all have the shortest growing season.
But by examining this data, we can begin
to see some nuances and that it appears
that cluster five actually has
the heaviest amount of snow in January.
But cluster 4 seems to have
snow occur earlier, and
cluster 10 seems to have
snow a little later.
It's not necessarily a huge difference,
but if you think back to our business
case of trying to cluster the stores
by climate in order to determine what
seasonal product should be available
in specific stores and specific times.
This kind of visualization, and
the data behind it, could be
beneficial in making those decisions.
So it looks like, in our case,
the cluster solution makes sense and
could easily be put into effect.
For instance, you could take the maximum
date for the last winter freeze,
and the minimum date for the first
winter freeze within each cluster, and
use it to determine when to start and
stop stocking stores
with seasonal flowers.
I created something like this in
Alteryx that you can easily replicate.
I've taken the data that we were
using for the visualizations.
I dropped in a summary tool to where
we're grouping by the cluster.
And we're taking the maximum
last winter freeze date and
the minimum first winter freeze date.
I'm sorting it by maximum
date last winter freeze, and
now we can look at the results.
And we can see that there is quite
a distinction between cluster 1,
which as you recall, has the shortest
growing season in cluster 5,
4, and 10 which have the shortest ones.